#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip bigskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Literature Review - Camera-to-Camera Tracking for Person Re-identification
 within Thermal Imagery
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Tom Robson - hzwr87
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
\paragraph_spacing single
Supervisor - Dr T Breckon
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A fundamental task for a distributed multi-camera surveillance system is
 to associate people across different camera views at different locations
 and times [1].
 This is referred to as the Person Re-Identification problem [1] and is
 an interesting and important problem within the field of computer vision,
 with many different approaches being taken to try and perform this process
 efficiently and reliably, mainly revolving around the use of features or
 attributes of a target person [5].
 A general overview of much of the previous work in this area and the techniques
 used is given in [1].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From the previous work discussed in the next section, we can see that a
 substantial amount of work that has been done on person re-id, but much
 of this relies on the colour spectrum, with attributes of the form “red
 shirt” [5].
 However, in the modern world, thermal imagery is often used for surveillance
 when all environmental conditions are possible and needs to be accounted
 for to enable more effective re-identification in more situations.
 Whilst thermal imagery has many advantages, it is not able to identify
 colour, making attributes that rely on colour useless.
 As shall be discussed in the next section, recently there has been an increase
 in the amount of research into thermal tracking, and some focus on reidentifcat
ion, although mainly in robotics, rather than in a distributed camera network,
 as discussed in [11] and [13].
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Many of the state of the art techniques employed in re-identification using
 colours can also be employed in thermal, such as posture as elaborated
 upon in [2].
 Even some of the colour attributes can be useful in a less precise manner,
 such as using light and dark rather than particular colours, or the presence
 of a coat or a bag.
 The challenge that this project will address is to make a re-identification
 system in thermal that is just as efficient and reliable as one in colour
 and can function in all environments by utilising more complex attributes.
 There has been a reasonable amount of work done to address this problem,
 and a discussion of this work will follow in the next section.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Definition of terms: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Distributed multi-camera surveillance system – A centrally system of non-overlap
ping cameras covering a set area.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Re-Identification - The proceduce of associating people across different
 camera views at different locations and times
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Attributes/Features – Appearance or functional attributes that are discrete
 and unambiguous in interpretation.
 These will be used interchangably.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Thermal Imagery - a method of displaying the shape of objects in a by detecting
 the objects' infrared radiation and creating an image based on that information.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Existing Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Overviews of topic
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When beginning to investigate this area, it is important that we first gain
 an overall understanding of the field before narrowing our focus to person
 re-identification in thermal imagery.
 Many re-identification approaches rely upon accurate video tracking, and
 therefore [6] was a good place to start to gain an understanding of the
 fundamentals of tracking, feature extraction, target representation and
 the methods that are commonly used to achieve this.
 Moving on to re-identification specifically, the work in [1] is an good
 resource for this purpose, as it first gives an overview of what re-identificat
ion is and why it is useful and challenging, and then proceeds to give an
 high level overview of some of the techniques that have been researched
 and implemented previously in order to find a reliable and efficient method
 to solve the re-identification problem.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The work in [5] expands on the information provided by [1] to focus on the
 gathering and use of attributes for re-identification, emphasising the
 typical methods for attribute gathering and how to evaluate the usefulness
 and relevance of the attributes.
 This does not suggest any particular method, or carry out new research,
 but instead acts as a good summary of the current state of the art when
 it comes to gathering and using attributes.
 Many of the attributes normally used are simple, appearance based attributes
 such as gender, shirt colour, the presence of a coat or bag and hair colour.
 However, to increase reliability some systems use more complex attributes,
 such as movement path, scene position and posture.
 Such attributes require more complicated algorithms with greater computational
 complexity, but do lead to an increase in reliability.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Techniques for attribute collection 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In much of the previous work that has been done on this topic, as discussed
 in [1] and [5], the system has to be ‘trained’ by human experts using location
 specific training data to build an ontology of attributes and determine
 when a subject matches these attributes.
 This is referred to as a supervised learning system.
 This leads to accurate re-identification, as the attributes are recognised
 from the same distance, height and illumination to the targets as they
 will be when the system operates independently.
 However, this is an expensive and time consuming approach as it requires
 the presence of a human expert at each site that the system is being deployed
 in for a considerable length of time 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The research presented in [4] details another possible method of attribute
 collection using the vast amount of image data that can be found on social
 media sites on the Internet.
 The system works by trawling through photos on social media and using metadata
 to identify characteristics of the people in the images, which can then
 be used as attribute within a re-identification system.
 An advantage of this method is that the system does not need to be trained
 on site specific training data wherever it is deployed, as this online
 data can be applied anywhere.
 The system must classify and filter down a huge amount of data though before
 it can do any form of accurate detection or re-identification, as much
 of the data can be of low quality, don’t provide sufficient information
 in the metadata, or are inappropriate.
 This extends the time and computational resources needed to initially train
 the system, but removes the need for a human expert.
 Once the training proceure is done the system will be able to perform re-identi
fication effectively in multiple locations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Colour Systems 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Re-identification in colour is a well-researched area, particularly in terms
 of using attributes.
 Many of these methods are discussed in [1], and are fairly simple in nature
 and well known.
 Here we consider an important part of the current state of the art research
 is network layout and topology, and this is evidenced in [17].
 Here, the technique of Distance Vector Routing is employed to get an idea
 of the relative locations of the cameras, enabling the system to prioritise
 the people seen most recently by the closest camera, as these are most
 likely to be correct.
 This is done by first analysing the overlap between cameras, and then computing
 distance vectors and probabilities of going from one camera to another,
 reducing the time complexity of the re-identificationprocess in the majority
 of cases.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The work in [15] is on a similar theme to [17], but assumes a non-overlapping
 camera system.
 Each camera has entry and exit zones from its field of view, and if a person
 can get from one camera’s field of view to another they are directly connected.
 The system can then create what is referred to as a camera link model,
 using a temporal, spatial and appearance relation between the entry and
 exit zones of the cameras.
 These paths are obtained from training data, but the system itself learns
 how to recognise people by attributes, and uses the training data to estimate
 where they are most likely to have gone after leaving a camera’s field
 of view.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The authors of [16] propose a different method for feature based identification,
 using a feature projection matrix to project image features of one camera
 to the feature space of another, to effectively eliminate the difference
 of feature distributions between the two cameras.
 The feature projection matrix is obtained through supervised learning.
 The proposed method aims to use a simple gradient descent algorithm to
 accelerate and optimise the re-identification process by compensating for
 the inconsistency of feature distributions captured by different cameras.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The work in [18] emphasises the importance of making good use of all images
 and video frames captured of a target.
 The system proposed here creates a gallery of images of known induviduals,
 with more images increasing the accuracy of the system.
 When a gallery exists for a target, this is referred to as multi-shot re-identi
fication, and single-shot re-identification when only one image is available
 in both the query and the gallery.
 For multi-shot re-identification, the authors propose to use geometric
 distance in another way by collaboratively approximating the query sets
 using all galleries, a method known as Collaborative Sparse Approximation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Thermal Systems 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The work in [10] details a motion tracking system that uses only the thermal
 space.
 Developing an effective and efficient method for this is becoming more
 and more important as the uses of thermal imagery increase.
 This system uses the Wigner Distribution, which includes both time and
 frequency, to enable it to create an association between spatial and temporal
 data.
 This helps to alleviate one of the major problems, with tracking in thermal;
 that temperature is not uniform across the body.
 Using this in place of feature-based tracking reduces the complexity of
 the system and therefore allows it to perform accurate tracking faster
 in real time.
 In [12], another system based on the relationship between spatial and temporal
 signatures in thermal is proposed, combining a human detection algorithm
 with the real-time compressive tracking algorithm.
 This algorithm uses bounding boxes, which surround an object to be tracked
 in subsequent frames.
 We can associate each bounding box with a set of features, both spatial
 and temporal in nature, and rematch this box with the target in subsequent
 frames.
 This approach gives promising results, but requires further research.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thermal tracking and identification also has applications in robotics, as
 stated in [13].
 This is an additional challenge due to robot movement, so it will not have
 a consistent view of the environment.
 Therefore, thermal is useful to allow detection irrespective of the light
 level.
 This movement based consideration can be seen as relevant to our problem
 of multiple cameras, as each of these will be trying to detect the same
 target from a different position.
 This paper also discusses the issue of overlapping signatures of multiple
 people standing close together, and suggests the ‘fuzzy logic’ approach
 to solving it, which uses mathematical functions to determine how strongly
 an object is in the foreground or background.
 This approach is shown to have good results.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The work in [11] agrees with [13] in many respects, as it is also a person
 tracking and re-identification system for robotics, based on movement through
 a changing environment.
 The thermal imaging system filters out the background elements, and then
 uses a set of heuristics to determine if a hot-spot is a person or not.
 Experimentation shows that while it performs well in indoor environments,
 it can sometimes be confused in outdoor environments with high levels of
 clutter.
 The paper concludes suggesting a combined system of colour and thermal
 imaging.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The authors of [14] present a novel algorithm for tracking in thermal space,
 using random ferns learning to approximate the location of a person on
 a frame-by-frame basis.
 This method uses background subtraction without the need for pre-trained
 detectors, along with association based tracking, a fully automatic process
 which associates humans with identified tracks based on motion and appearance
 cues.
 Thermal is used in this system in order to resolve any problems with the
 illumination level.
 This was shown to be an effective method of re-identification.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Multiple Source Systems
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The re-identification method proposed in [7] suggests using a mixture of
 colour, thermal and depth based imaging to improve accuracy of re-identificatio
n.
 The colour channel provides a colour histogram per body part, the depth
 channel provides a skeletal outline, and the thermal channel provides local
 structural information and difference from background.
 Combining the three of these gives a tri-modal dataset of attributes.
 The system must then determine if a person is new or if they have been
 seen before.
 Nearly all new persons were identified correctly as new, but some previously
 seen were misidentified as new due to significant changes in one or more
 of the spectra.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
More Complex Attributes 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Papers [2] and [3] propose the use of photogrammetric methods to accomplish
 3D localisation and tracking in [3] and posture estimation in [2].
 One of the major problems that [3] addresses is that in thermal space,
 bringing a 3D environment down to a 2D representation can lead to ambiguity
 due to overlapping thermal signatures.
 This is where the photogrammetry comes in, determining the 3D position
 using camera projection and target size.
 A Kalman filter is then applied to track the 3D scene trajectories of the
 targets.
 The results of this investigation show that it is an effective improvement
 to 3D localisation in thermal space.
 The assumption of human height as a constant introduces a statistical error,
 but this is small and is reliable in the majority of cases.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, an issue with the approach presented in [3] is the assumption of
 posture, or that a person is always standing at full height within a scene.
 This would be a particularly problematic when tracking a non-cooperative
 target who may deliberately vary their posture to avoid detection.
 The work in [2] presents a method to address this problem.
 The posture of a target detected in a scene is estimated as a percentage
 of full height based on the use of a Histogram of Oriented Gradient feature
 descriptor, gathered from each detected target, and aided by Support Vector
 Machine based machine learning regression.
 Like [3], this system makes use of the key advantage of thermal imagery
 to facilitate robust target localisation.
 The effect of this work makes the system from [3] more robust and enables
 it to function in situations where targets are attempting to avoid detection.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To conclude, reading through the literature discussed above has made it
 clear that while there has been much work done on both re-identification
 and thermal tracking, re-identification in a distributed camera network
 in thermal imagery is an area that is still open to new work, but the principle
s are well researched enough to give this project a significant body of
 information backing it up.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Proposed Direction of Project
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The aim of this project is to develop a system that would build upon and
 extend the range of existing thermal image detection, tracking and classificati
on approaches being carried out by the Durham University research team.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first step for this would be to draw upon existing work to be able to
 detect a person within thermal video imagery in real time, distinguish
 a person from other objects and track a person moving through a scene in
 real time using methods from [6].
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We would then need to implement 2-3 state of the art features/attributes
 from the literature referenced below, many of which are mentioned in [1].
 We would then carry out a first pass or initial framework for re-identification
 using these features/attributes.
 The system must be able to re-identify 5+ people within a test video sequence
 in real time using multiple cameras.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This would then be extended by implementing 2 more state of the art features/att
ributes and extending the re-identification ability to 10+ people.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-1"

\end_inset

S.
 Gong, M.
 Cristani, C.
 C.
 Loy, and T.
 M.
 Hospedales, “The Re-Identification Challenge,” … Re-Identification, pp.
 1–21, 2014.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-2"

\end_inset

M.
 E.
 Kundegorski and T.
 P.
 Breckon, “Posture estimation for improved photogrammetric localization
 of pedestrians in monocular infrared imagery,” Proc.
 SPIE - Int.
 Soc.
 Opt.
 Eng., vol.
 9652, 2015.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-3"

\end_inset

M.
 E.
 Kundegorski and T.
 P.
 Breckon, “A Photogrammetric Approach for Real-time 3D Localization and
 Tracking of Pedestrians in Monocular Infrared Imagery 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-4"

\end_inset

R.
 Layne, T.
 Hospedales, and S.
 Gong, “Re-id: Hunting Attributes in the Wild,” Proc.
 Br.
 Mach.
 Vis.
 Conf.
 2014, 2014.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-5"

\end_inset

R.
 Layne, T.
 M.
 Hospedales, and S.
 Gong, “Attributes-based Re-Identification.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-6"

\end_inset

E.
 Maggio and A.
 Cavallaro, Video Tracking - Theory and Practice.
 2011.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-7"

\end_inset

A.
 Mogelmose, C.
 Bahnsen, T.
 B.
 Moeslund, A.
 Clapes, and S.
 EscalerA, “Tri-modal person re-identification with rgb, depth and thermal
 features,” IEEE Comput.
 Soc.
 Conf.
 Comput.
 Vis.
 Pattern Recognit.
 Work., pp.
 301–307, 2013.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-8"

\end_inset

D.
 S.
 J.
 D.
 Prince, “Computer Vision: Models, Learning, and Inference,” Lancet Neurol.,
 vol.
 12, no.
 4, p.
 335, 2013.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-9"

\end_inset

R.
 Szeliski, “Computer Vision : Algorithms and Applications,” Computer (Long.
 Beach.
 Calif)., vol.
 5, p.
 832, 2010.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-10"

\end_inset

C.
 N.
 Padole and L.
 A.
 Alexandre, “Wigner distribution based motion tracking of human beings using
 thermal Imaging,” in 2010 IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer
 Vision and Pattern Recognition - Workshops, 2010, pp.
 9–14.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-11"

\end_inset

A.
 Konigs and D.
 Schulz, “Fast visual people tracking using a feature-based people detector
 and thermal imaging,” in 2013 IEEE International Symposium on Safety, Security,
 and Rescue Robotics (SSRR), 2013, pp.
 1–6.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-12"

\end_inset

F.
 K.
 Coutts, S.
 Marshall, and P.
 Murray, “Human detection and tracking through temporal feature recognition,”
 2014 22nd European Signal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO).
 IEEE, pp.
 2180–2184, 2014.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-13"

\end_inset

I.
 Ciric, Z.
 Cojbasic, V.
 Nikolic, and D.
 Antic, “Computationally intelligent system for thermal vision people detection
 and tracking in robotic applications,” in 2013 11th International Conference
 on Telecommunications in Modern Satellite, Cable and Broadcasting Services
 (TELSIKS), 2013, vol.
 02, pp.
 587–590.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-14"

\end_inset

J.-Y.
 Kwak, B.
 Ko, and J.-Y.
 Nam, “Multi-person Tracking Based on Body Parts and Online Random Ferns
 Learning of Thermal Images,” in 2015 IEEE Winter Conference on Applications
 of Computer Vision, 2015, pp.
 41–46.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-15"

\end_inset

C.-T.
 Chu and J.-N.
 Hwang, “Fully Unsupervised Learning of Camera Link Models for Tracking
 Humans Across Nonoverlapping Cameras,” IEEE Trans.
 Circuits Syst.
 Video Technol., vol.
 24, no.
 6, pp.
 979–994, Jun.
 2014.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-16"

\end_inset

Y.
 Yimin Wang, R.
 Ruimin Hu, C.
 Chao Liang, C.
 Chunjie Zhang, and Q.
 Qingming Leng, “Camera Compensation Using a Feature Projection Matrix for
 Person Reidentification,” IEEE Trans.
 Circuits Syst.
 Video Technol., vol.
 24, no.
 8, pp.
 1350–1361, Aug.
 2014.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-17"

\end_inset

N.
 Martinel, G.
 L.
 Foresti, and C.
 Micheloni, “Person Reidentification in a Distributed Camera Network Framework,”
 IEEE Trans.
 Cybern., pp.
 1–12, 2016.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-18"

\end_inset

Y.
 Wu, M.
 Minoh, M.
 Mukunoki, W.
 Li, and S.
 Lao, “Collaborative Sparse Approximation for Multiple-Shot Across-Camera
 Person Re-identification,” in 2012 IEEE Ninth International Conference
 on Advanced Video and Signal-Based Surveillance, 2012, pp.
 209–214.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-19"

\end_inset

H.
 Aghajan, A.
 Cavallaro, A.
 Dore, M.
 Pinasco, and C.
 S.
 Regazzoni, Multi-Camera Networks.
 2009.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
